>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
to keep on to help uncover what
really happened.
>> It felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> We need to give
people the information.
>> NARRATOR: And now the host
of the nationally syndicated
"Coast to Coast AM" and Gaiam
TV bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY: Welcome to
"Beyond Belief" where tonight,
we're going to talk about the
unusual mysteries, ghosts,
life after death, and what
happens to us when we leave
this planet.
One of the world's foremost
paranormal investigators
with us right now,
he heads up, and he's
part of the team
"Paranormal Paparazzi"
on the Travel Channel,
he investigates all kinds
of unusual phenomena,
Joshua P. Warren.
Hey, Josh, come on out here.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: Good to see you.
>> JOSHUA P. WARREN: Thank you.
>> NOORY: How did you get
interested in ghost hunting?
>> WARREN: Well, you know,
I grew up in the mountains
of Asheville, North Carolina.
And there are lots of
legends and stories there
that go back hundreds of
years about spooky things.
And as a teenager, I became
interested in writing.
I started writing articles about
some of these ghost stories.
And I wondered if there
was some truth there.
So to become a
better journalist,
I learned to become
a better scientist
so I could start measuring
some of these odd energy fields
at these haunted places.
And I found,
surprisingly, there are
things that you can
objectively document
at sites where people have
these profound experiences.
>> NOORY: What do you think
these things are, Josh?
>> WARREN: Well, you know,
there are many different types
of paranormal entities, whether
we call them ghosts or angels
or demons or aliens.
And what we have found most
interesting of all, I think,
is that, yes, it does
appear that there
is a part of the human
consciousness that
exists outside of
the physical body.
But what we are
finding more and more,
as we do deeper
technological research,
is that people have had these
experiences for thousands
of years, even before there
were artificial power supplies,
batteries, wires,
man-made radio waves.
So we asked ourselves,
what is the power
supply for these things?
I mean, when a ghost appears,
it takes a lot of energy.
You could have
objects flying around,
you can have bright light
forms, people getting touched.
Where does it come from?
Well, we're finding more
and more that it seems,
we, ourselves, literally
power these entities
with our own bioenergy.
And that's why it's essential
for a human observer
to be present for that
mind/body, environment
relationship to
actually charge up
this ghost with the bioenergy
it requires to appear.
>> NOORY: If one believes
in life after death,
and then we ask ourselves this
age old question, who are we?
What are we doing here?
How did we get here?
Isn't it just a
natural occurrence
to believe that this
energy, this spirit world,
is just a natural
form of existence?
It's just always been here?
>> WARREN: Absolutely.
I mean, really, physicality
is a relative thing.
You and I are physical
to each other right
now, because we're resonating
at a similar frequency.
>> NOORY: Don't be too physical.
>> WARREN: No problem.
We have a table here.
But if we were resonating
at a much different rate,
then we would slip right
through each other,
almost like hugging
Casper the Friendly Ghost.
He goes through you, just
like a radio wave does.
So I became interested
in that connection
between the physical
body and the energy body.
And I did an experiment
that I think's
quite fascinating, that ties
in nicely to some of the things
we'll discuss today.
I've studied people who are
bioenergy practitioners.
>> NOORY: What does that mean?
>> WARREN: These are people who
say that they can channel more
energy from the environment
and use it for either healing
purposes or to harm someone,
like a martial artist
in a self-defense scenario.
>> NOORY: They're
like an antenna?
>> WARREN: Absolutely, they're
an antenna and a magnifier.
They can control
this flow of energy.
So I travelled to
Chicago, Illinois,
and spent a lot of time
investigating and researching
a fellow named
Grandmaster Tom Cameron.
And he does these
controversial demonstrations
in which he projects
energy fields
and can sometimes knock people
down without touching them.
He is a practitioner
of what they
call Dim Mak, the
Chinese Death Touch.
And I started measuring him as
he was producing these energy
projections.
I'm sure you've seen him before.
There's a picture of Grandmaster
Cameron producing a break.
And I'm standing there
with a meter and that
taking some measurements, with
a colleague, as he does this.
Well, we decided to do an
experiment in which we took
a subject, a friend of mine,
who is an investigator named Joe
Sutherds, and figured we
would let him be knocked out.
It's great to work
with me on projects.
>> NOORY: Did he know you
were going to do this him?
>> WARREN: Yeah, he agreed.
He agreed.
>> NOORY: All right.
>> WARREN: Joe is a big guy.
He's 6 foot 5.
He's a big, hefty, good
old, Tennessee boy.
And Grandmaster
Cameron said, I'm
going to build up an
enormous amount of energy
and I can either just project
it, and not touch him.
Or I can tap him so you'll
know the precise moment when
I deliver it.
And I said, well,
how about this.
Why don't you give him a tap.
But here's what's going to
make this a special experiment.
First, we are going to
photograph Joe's fingertip
using a Kirlian camera.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> WARREN: Now a Kirlian
camera works by taking
the guy's finger, you put inside
of a box that's light sealed.
And he places his
finger directly
on the photographic plate.
And I, as the camera operator,
would then send a voltage
through his body of
about 5,000 volts.
>> NOORY: What?
>> WARREN: Yeah, but
it's very low amperage.
>> NOORY: Yeah, right.
>> WARREN: We always
disclaim it that way.
>> NOORY: Did you ever
make a mistake doing that?
>> WARREN: No.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> WARREN: Not so for.
And so for a split second
we send the voltage
through the body.
And what you end up with
is a nice ring of light.
And that is his fingertip, OK?
>> NOORY: Whoa!
>> WARREN: So there is no
light being exposed here.
>> NOORY: And it's all
around the fingertip?
>> WARREN: That's just the
electricity flowing through
the fingertip, right?
So that's a control.
That is how Joe's
fingertip looked
at a normal resting state.
Then Grandmaster Cameron
came up and he tapped Joe,
after building up
this energy blast.
He tapped Joe.
Instantly, Joe was
knocked back, almost out.
We had another guy there, an
investigator, Dean Warsing,
who caught big Joe and
lowered him to the ground.
Now at the very moment that
that tap was delivered,
I took a second
Kirlian photograph.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> WARREN: And I've taken
thousands of Kirlian
photographs, and I've never
seen one that looks like this.
At the very instant
when Joe went out,
we have a Kirlian that shows
not one, but two fingertips.
OK.
>> NOORY: Look at that, huge.
>> WARREN: Now notice
this is not a smear,
this is not a motion streak,
because it was a split second.
We have two distinct,
independent, separate
impressions of his fingertip.
I believe what you're
looking at here
is possibly the
first photograph ever
that shows the physical body
and an energy body that's
being knocked ajar.
>> NOORY: And it's
emitting from him.
>> WARREN: It's actually
removed from his body.
Now this may be
possible by literally,
violently striking somebody.
Or maybe controlling
the rate at which
the energy leaves the body.
So if we have basically
proven, to some extent,
that we have this
energy body that
overlays the physical body,
and that that energy body can
be removed and
transmitted, then it also
would tend to indicate
that we may actually power
some of these
paranormal experiences
by either consciously or
subconsciously sending some
of our own energy
out into the ether.
Or later, when I show you
some of the technology I've
brought for you, you'll see that
this is mind-powered technology
that is designed to tap
into that bioenergy field
and allow you to direct
it to a particular place
at a particular time
if you want to enhance
the paranormal activity there.
>> NOORY: Joshua, at
the time of death,
what would a picture like this
look like if somebody died?
>> WARREN: I think it would
look very similar to that.
>> NOORY: You'd still
see the energy burst?
>> WARREN: I think that
you would-- and of course,
technologically, there's
no reason that we cannot
photograph a person
right as he or she dies.
There are,
unfortunately, some sort
of ethical issues about handling
that kind of an operation.
But there have been similar
experiments done using plants.
And the phantom leaf effect
is the effect created
when a leaf is photographed
with a Kirlian camera,
you see energy around it, then
you tear a part of the leaf
away and photograph
it a second time,
and that portion that was
torn away still develops.
And so if we consider that
there may be an energy
field that we can
project ourselves,
and that reality, due
to what we now consider
the holographic
universe principle,
is this conscious, sensitive,
medium that we are sort
of wandering around in, that
we're not separate from,
that we're a part of, we ask
the question, to what extent
can we control these things?
Well, now this is a picture from
our laboratory of a plasma that
was created between a
couple of electrodes.
Now a plasma is a highly
energized state of matter.
It looks like a glowing
ball of light, there.
And we were experimenting with
this plasma, a group of us
were, because we
think this plasma is
similar to what a
ghost is made out,
when people see a glowing form.
Well, at one point,
we're standing
there looking at
that ball of plasma
and we started talking
about flying saucers.
And something absolutely
mind boggling happened.
That plasma, before
our eyes, transformed
into a saucer shape.
>> NOORY: Interesting.
And it seems a little
more illuminated.
>> WARREN: Yes.
It's a little brighter and
it's taken on that nice saucer
shape.
Now this was astounding to us,
because if we can demonstrate,
as I'm attempting to here, that
we have this energy field which
can be transmitted
outside the body.
>> NOORY: Whether
you're alive or dead.
>> WARREN: That's right.
And that this field,
which is connected
with our consciousness,
can, in fact,
shape the space-time holographic
medium that were walking in,
then this would explain why that
we have such great technology,
but we still don't
understand so much
about ghosts and the paranormal.
The reason is,
Newtonian physics has
done a great job of allowing us
to build a better mouse trap.
But we still don't
understand consciousness,
this stream of information.
If paranormal phenomena
are the product
of this intimate
relationship between the mind
and the body and
the environment,
but every single person
is a unique individual,
how do you standardize that?
How do you customize that?
Science requires that level
of consistent repeatability.
But if this is something which
depends on the individual,
and it's different
for everybody,
that explains why the
Newtonian approach has not
been effective.
And now people who
are looking into more
mental and holographic
universe oriented principles
are taking us closer
to understanding how
that we cooperate in
this process of making
these things appear.
>> NOORY: When somebody dies,
and we get these stories--
we saw grandma at the
corner of our bed--
why aren't they leaving?
Why aren't they going
off to that other energy
plane of existence?
What do they hang around for?
>> WARREN: Well, you know, there
are two basic types of ghosts.
You have some ghosts
that we call imprints.
And these are ghosts
that almost seem
like some type of
information that
has been recorded in
the environment, that
replays itself
from time to time.
So a ghost that is
an imprint seems
redundant,
non-interactive, unaware.
And in fact, a lot
of imprints are even
inanimate objects, ghost ships,
ghost cars, a ghost stagecoach,
as well as the horse
that's pulling it.
So that's one type of ghost.
If you see grandma, it might
be there was a moment there
when there was some
emotional imprint,
and you're seeing that.
>> NOORY: Well, are we bringing
grandma on, or is she doing it
to herself?
>> WARREN: Well, if it's an
imprint, I don't think grandma,
necessarily, has
anything to do with it.
But if it's an entity, which
means that grandma appears
to be interactive, she seems
conscious, she seems aware.
>> NOORY: Maybe gives you a
message from the other side.
>> WARREN: That's right.
In that case, this
would actually
be the stream of
information that
is grandma being
picked up by you.
And you are determining,
to a certain extent,
how that will be projected
into a visualization.
So you might see
grandma the way that she
looks in your favorite
photograph of her,
as opposed to how she
looked the moment she died.
And that's also why ghosts don't
usually appear naked, right?
>> NOORY: Good point.
Always dressed.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
Hopefully, you
don't, you know, it
depends on what you want to see.
But nonetheless, all that
said, if you take something
like a television and you
were to hand it to a caveman,
and he's looking at all the
little people dancing around.
And he opens up
the top of the set
and looks inside to
find the little people,
he's not going to see
anything like that.
>> NOORY: He'll be very upset
when he doesn't find them.
>> WARREN: He'll just have
a bunch of wires and nuts
and bolts and things,
where are the people?
Well, the people
are not in the box.
They are a stream of
information that the box
is sort of projecting
and interpreting
in a temporary form.
And we are the same sort
of device, if you will.
This is like the television
box, this physical body.
But it seems that
our consciousness
is a stream of
information that's
coming from a larger
body of signals.
And some people have
a clearer connection
to that body of
signals, which is
why some people are
more psychic, I think.
They can use that to connect
into other people's signals.
>> NOORY: I want to talk
with you about demons, too.
>> WARREN: Sure.
>> NOORY: Because that
has a lot to do with it.
But let's take some
questions from the audience.
>> WARREN: Great.
>> NOORY: Questions from any
of you for Joshua P. Warren?
Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Have you
ever been truly frightened
by an experience that you had?
>> WARREN: That's
a great question,
and I have been frightened a
couple of times by experiences
that I've had.
You know, the funny thing
is, the very first time
I saw a ghost in person,
I was so close to it,
I was able to reach
out and touch it.
And it was cold on the inside,
made the hair on my knuckles
stand up.
But that was not scary
for me, because I
was in an attic with another
fellow, and when we saw it,
it blew our minds.
I almost felt numb.
I was mesmerized.
I couldn't believe
what I was seeing.
The time that I
actually probably felt
the most frightened was when
I was spending the night
by myself at Myrtle's
Plantation in Louisiana.
I had the entire property
to myself for a whole night.
And about 10 o'clock at night,
we turned out the lights.
It was very dark.
I turned out the lights.
And I'm videotaping
with my camera.
And all of a sudden, I
start hearing this banging
on the wall.
And I thought somebody else
had apparently showed up,
but there was nobody
on the property.
Well, it got to the
point where I would say,
bang on that table.
Boom!
Can you do that again?
Now bang on that wall.
Boom!
This would happen over and over.
And when the reality sunk in
that I believed I was alone,
but I knew there was
something else there with me
that was conscious,
that was interactive,
and that I couldn't
see it, some kind
of animalistic fight or
flight instinct kicked in.
I was so unnerved.
And even though I had no
real reason to be afraid,
I couldn't help it,
it was an instinct.
And I overcame that, though.
And this went on for four hours.
And it was a life altering
experience for me,
because it showed
me that this was
a true entity, a
disembodied intelligence.
>> NOORY: Another question
for Joshua Warren?
There you go.
>> AUDIENCE: Joshua, how can
you explain feeling a calm,
loving touch on your shoulder
in an emotional situation?
>> WARREN: Well, you know, I
think it's actually very common
for a touch to be delivered by
some type of a spiritual form
or presence at an
emotional moment.
You see, in our laboratory,
we became very interested
in the process of
how a ghost might
physically interact with us.
And what we found is that by
using electrostatic charges
in the laboratory, that you
can make hair stand on end,
you can move physical objects,
you give people cold chills.
And if you hold an electrostatic
charge up to someone's back,
it feels like they're
being touched on the back.
And we know that there is this
powerful electrical element
that accompanies
ghostly activity.
So if you are in a state when
you need some type of support,
a little extra care, and there
is a spiritual entity there
that wants to maybe
comfort you, it
makes sense that the
easiest thing it could do
would be to muster
up just enough
of that electrostatic charge
for that physical force
to give you that tender touch.
>> NOORY: Josh, when we watch
some of these paranormal TV
shows, and you're on
"Paranormal Paparazzi,"
sometimes it always seems
like, they have to have a ghost
there.
Now we know, being
on investigations,
that doesn't happen
all the time.
Do those kinds of shows hurt or
help paranormal investigating?
>> WARREN: I think they
both hurt and help.
The thing that is
ironic about those shows
is that paranormal phenomena
is called paranormal phenomena
because it hardly ever happens.
So how do you crank it
out every week, you know?
I mean, I think that when
you are on a deadline--
and fortunately, I've never
worked on a show where I've
had to do that, even "Paranormal
Paparazzi" doesn't require
us to go out and find
a ghost, necessarily.
Some shows do.
And on those shows, it's
very important, I think,
for them to meet
these deadlines.
And they get a
little too creative.
You know, it comes
down to deadline and--
>> NOORY: Got to have
something, right?
>> WARREN: They hear some
little staticky noise, oh,
did you hear that?
It said, get out.
And it just sounds
like shh to me.
I'm very critical of that.
So even though, you
have to realize,
TV is first and
foremost entertainment.
>> NOORY: A little
ratings driven.
>> WARREN: Of course.
You know, at the end of the
day, everybody has to get paid.
But the good thing is, it
does inspire a lot of people
to want to go out and
search for themselves.
And hopefully, most people
are not naive enough
to believe everything
they see on these shows
and believe it's all true.
But anything that kind of
A, inspires people, and B,
brings this stuff into the
mainstream consciousness
more so that you're not
considered so much of a freak
if you come out and tell
your story, is good.
>> NOORY: Maybe by the
time this show's over,
we'll have a ghost show up here.
>> WARREN: Well, it's possible.
>> NOORY: You know what?
We'll be back, "Beyond
Belief" with Joshua P
Warren in just a moment.
[APPLAUSE]
>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: Welcome back to
"Beyond Belief" with Joshua P.
Warren, Paranormal Investigator.
Joshua, demons-- you talked
about imprints, entities, what
about these demons?
These evil, possessed things.
What the heck are they?
>> WARREN: Well, if you consider
that the human brain is really
just a machine that seems
to channel this stream
of information we
call consciousness,
I believe that there are beings
out there which can almost act
like parasites and tap into that
stream of energy and feed off
of it, even when you
don't want them to.
>> NOORY: They need to do that.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
You know, we get energy by
putting something in our mouths
and chewing it up
and swallowing.
But there is no
reason to believe
that all life that may
exist has to look like us
and exist at this frequency.
I think that there
are entities that
take their energy in a
more direct way, that they
don't have to eat
food to get it.
It's a pretty crude way
of doing it, frankly.
And that's why, a lot of times
when a person is sleeping,
these kind of dark forms will
be attracted to a sleeping
individual and absorb
that person's energy.
>> NOORY: Is that why some
people wake up and they're more
tired than when
they went to sleep?
>> WARREN: Absolutely.
In fact, during the
Victorian times,
when the psychical
research was being born,
as we know it, in England.
It was common to
go on a ghost hunt
and bring a sleeper with you.
And this is an individual
whose job was solely to sleep.
And the idea was that
the dormant bioenergy
would be utilized
by the apparition.
So all that said,
I think there are
some very sort of
dark entities, not
necessarily that they
might have bad intentions,
it's just that what they
do for us is an invasion.
OK.
They're coming and they are
using us for a food supply,
and draining on you and
making you depressed.
And if you hang out with
certain types of people
and you go to certain
types of places
where they engage in
activities that sort of lower
your resistance, like
bars, for example--
>> NOORY: Well, I've been to
places where you're standing
next to somebody and
you feel exhausted.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
>> NOORY: They haven't even said
anything and you have to run
away from them.
>> WARREN: That's right.
Like an energy vampire.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
When you are in
those scenarios, I
believe that over time,
you lower your resistance.
And in fact, you
know, we're not far
from the Stanley Hotel,
the Shining hotel.
And it reminds me of
that sort of, I guess,
that model in "The Shining"
that some places might
lower your resistance
and wear you down,
and you become possessed,
because these things are
able to access you more easily.
So I tend to think that
most of what people call,
quote, unquote, "demonic" are
these parasitic entities that
latch on that way.
>> NOORY: If Jack Nicholson
sticks his head through here,
I'm out of here.
>> WARREN: Yeah,
you and me both.
Yeah.
>> NOORY: I had a friend of
mine who died in a motorcycle
accident.
I went to the funeral.
I don't like going to
funerals, but I went.
And you look at the
body in the casket,
and they hardly ever look like
they did when they were alive.
And for a split second,
a believer in life
after death, I looked at him
and I said, what if this is it.
He's done, nothing else
exists beyond that?
One, he doesn't know that.
It was, to me, for that
split second, the coldest,
most loneliest feeling I
have ever felt in my life.
Do you think for a moment that
religion and people of the past
created the feeling of
life after death in order
to fix that hole of loneliness?
Or do you think it's real?
>> WARREN: Both, actually.
Because I think that
people created that belief
because they needed
that reassurance.
I think these beliefs were
also created to control people,
to govern people, because
religions have often
been used for that purpose
throughout history.
But it just so happens to
turn out that we are seeing,
the more intelligent we
become, that it's true.
And you can look at
it philosophically,
or you could look
at it physically,
but, essentially, we know that
energy can be neither created
nor destroyed-- simply
conserved and transformed
from one version into another.
And therefore, if we are
self-aware of this very moment,
then it seems to me that
that awareness will always
exist in some form.
It doesn't
necessarily have to be
in a form with two arms and two
legs, wearing a jacket, right?
It could end up in
a mug, if we really
wanted to get that creative.
I mean, the funny thing is,
if you start breaking down
the human body, all the stuff
that we can actually measure,
put under a
microscope, it doesn't
look that different at the
smallest levels from all
the other matter
in the universe,
inanimate objects
as well as animals,
microorganisms, we all look
the same at the very smallest
levels.
>> NOORY: You do
not want to die.
You want to enjoy
this existence.
But are you prepared
to join the other side?
>> WARREN: I think I am.
I think I'm prepared,
because, you know,
I was having a conversation
with a friend last night.
And he was saying that the
scariest part about dying
is that here you spend all
these years, all these decades,
learning things, if you're
that type of person,
and becoming more and more
enlightened, and then you die
and you have to be reborn
and start it all over again.
So that's the stressful
part, like, oh,
do I have to go
back to square one
in a whole new manifestation.
>> NOORY: I got to go to
second grade all over again.
>> WARREN: Yes,
I've got to go back
to--that's precisely--yeah.
>> NOORY: Josh,
hold that thought.
We're going to come right
back on "Beyond Belief"
with Joshua Warren
in just a moment.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>> NOORY: Josh, they
love you with ghosts.
We're with Joshua P Warren
here at "Beyond Belief."
There are some who claim that
you can talk to the dead.
I wrote a book called
"Talking to the Dead."
There was an old device
called the Spirit Com,
there's another one
called Frank's Box.
Is it just electronics?
Can you truly talk to the dead?
We've heard EVP sounds, the
Electronic Voice Phenomena
of voices, little ones, that
say, hello there, and stuff
like that.
What is all that?
>> WARREN: Well, there is
no reliable way to talk
to the dead.
I think that you can use
a lot of different tools.
And because of that mind/body
environment relationship,
if you happen to be in
tune with these entities,
then you can use a lot
of different devices
as an interface.
The problem, however, with
many of these devices that
rely on electronics,
is that, for one thing,
we live in a highly contaminated
world, where, I mean,
we just have tons of radio
waves and satellite signals.
>> NOORY: From everywhere.
>> WARREN: We're
bombarded with them.
So that makes it
almost impossible
to determine whether
or not you're
getting a contaminated reading,
unless you were in a Faraday
cage, or something, which
they never use that.
And the biggest problem is
that if I were walking down
the street and I handed a
cell phone to a stranger
and that stranger got
on the line and somebody
said I'd like to order
a pizza, you know.
That stranger would hear
exactly what that person said.
I require that level of
clarity and consistency.
>> NOORY: And we're not
getting that right now.
>> WARREN: No, we're
nowhere near that.
And same thing with EVP.
If you could walk
down the street
and play an EVP for
five different people
and they all immediately repeat
to you what you think it says,
then you've got a good EVP.
>> NOORY: No, you're right.
I mean, we've tried
playing EVPs on the radio
and you know how hard that is.
I mean, it's hard enough
just to hear with your ear.
But then when you hear
it through a radio,
it's even more difficult.
I will tell you,
though, that some
of the scariest
sounds I've heard
are the sounds of children
who have passed on.
Why is that so eerie?
>> WARREN: Well probably
because they are confused.
I mean, it's the same reason--
>> NOORY: It's sad.
>> WARREN: Yeah, I mean,
they're scared to death.
Generally, we become
less and less frightened
as we get older.
I mean, I remember not being
able to watch horror movie
trailers when I was a kid.
You know, Mom would
cover the eyes up,
because it'd be too scary.
But as you get older
you become desensitized.
And I think that, yeah, when a
child is removed dramatically
from this realm and maybe
alone for a period of time,
I'm sure it's terrifying.
And in fact, one reason I
think that a lot of the ghosts
out there are ghosts associated
with a negative person,
some murderer, or somebody
who's done something bad,
is because, if, when
you die, hypothetically,
there actually is some kind
of tunnel of light there.
>> NOORY: That you see.
>> WARREN: That you have
the option to go to.
Regardless of whether
or not there actually
is some God sitting there
that's going to judge you
on the other side, if
you believe there is,
that might be enough
to make you not
want to take that step
through that doorway yet.
>> NOORY: Tell me the story
of Robert the haunted doll.
>> WARREN: Robert the haunted
doll is the most famous spooky
little doll, probably,
in the world.
He is over 100 years old.
And he sits currently in a
museum in Key West, Florida.
>> NOORY: And I only speak
nicely of the little guy from
here on in.
>> WARREN: You and me both.
Yeah.
Robert, he's a big doll,
he's about three feet tall.
He looks like a little sailor.
He is sitting in a chair
and he has a stuffed lion.
And the story behind
him is that there
was a wealthy family
that lived in Key West.
And they had a little boy
named Robert Eugene Otto.
They call him Gene.
And they had a servant who was
from somewhere in the islands
where voodoo was practiced.
And at some point the
servant became disgruntled
with the family and, perhaps, as
a bit of vengeance or something
like that, she
created a doll that
looked like the little boy.
And the little boy became
obsessed with this doll,
almost like a big voodoo doll.
We don't know exactly
what her intention was,
did she use something
organic, some hair clippings
from the boy, who knows?
But the doll is call Robert
because the little boy's
first name is Robert.
So the little boy became
obsessed with this doll.
He would never part with
the rest of his life.
He treated it just like
it was a real person.
Even when he got
married to his wife,
they almost got a
divorce because he
carried the doll everywhere.
He had a whole room made for
the doll with little furniture.
>> NOORY: Wow.
>> WARREN: And the rumor I've
heard is that once in awhile
the wife, his wife, would end
up around town with bruises.
And people would go to
her husband and say,
have you been beating your wife?
>> NOORY: Of course.
>> WARREN: And he would
say, Robert did it.
So this doll kind of
became a scapegoat, maybe,
for a lot of negative energy.
>> NOORY: Well, is it possible
that while they were asleep,
Robert, the haunted doll,
clubbed her or did something
like that?
>> WARREN: You know, I have
talked to so many people who
seem to be perfectly
rational people,
who have set right there, looked
me in the eye and told me,
I have seen this doll get
up and move around the room.
>> NOORY: That's scary.
>> WARREN: And it's so
unbelievable, and yet,
you have to keep an open mind.
Is it possible?
I have to say it's possible.
I've never seen
that happen myself.
But I do know that when
you go see Robert the doll
for the first time-- and
for me, because I was doing
an investigation, they removed
the glass case that's usually
on top of him so I could really
get up close and personal.
He doesn't feel like
an inanimate object.
>> NOORY: He kind of
looks at you, doesn't he?
>> WARREN: Yeah, you feel like
you're looking at a living
little guy.
>> NOORY: You bought
a little replica.
>> WARREN: Yes, I did.
>> NOORY: And mailed it to me--
>> WARREN: That's right.
>> NOORY: --in Los Angeles.
>> WARREN: Yeah,
you didnn't know.
>> NOORY: Are you crazy?
>> WARREN: Well?
>> NOORY: This thing
was hideous looking,
and some woman wrote in and said
I want Robert the Haunted Doll.
And we gave it to her.
And now the doll and this
woman, her name is Maryann,
are inseparable.
>> WARREN: Oh, no, really?
>> NOORY: The best of friends.
And she will never
part with this thing.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
>> NOORY: But when I saw that
come in in a box, I said,
this could very well be Joshua's
last appearance on "Coast
to Coast."
>> WARREN: I feared
that might happen.
I think you should have put
a little mustache on him,
and then set him right
next to you in the booth.
>> NOORY: Just like me,
a little voodoo doll.
>> WARREN: Yes,
yes. that's right.
>> NOORY: Some have
said that about me.
>> WARREN: But I really think
that sometimes these objects
can become charged with energy.
It's very similar
to, let's say if you
take a piece of steel,
maybe a nail, and a magnet,
and you stroke that nail
over and over and over.
After a while--
>> NOORY: It becomes magnetized.
>> WARREN: It
becomes magnetized.
That's right.
It becomes polarized.
And so, I think, when you're
around certain objects
and you project a
certain wavelength,
for lack of a better word,
into them over and over
and over, eventually,
either they
are able to retain
a bit of that,
or they just align
with it, so they
start channeling the very
same energy they were given.
>> NOORY: You want
to Transylvania.
>> WARREN: Yes.
>> NOORY: You went
to Dracula's castle.
>> WARREN: Yes.
>> NOORY: How did that feel?
>> WARREN: It felt just
like I hoped it would.
>> NOORY: Perfect.
>> WARREN: It was
unbelievable, I mean--
>> NOORY: (ROMANIAN ACCENT)
I'm going to bite you
>> WARREN: Yes.
That's right.
The setting was exactly
as you would hope.
I mean, you're going for
these quaint villages
and these houses have
these pointy turrets.
And in the background
there are soaring mountains
with bare rock faces and
snow caps in the background.
And you have little old
ladies with their bundles,
and sheep herders
in the streets.
And it was like
stepping back in time.
But you know, this is a
great topic to bring up,
because we investigated
a castle in Transylvania
called Hunyad Castle in
a place called Hunedoara.
It's a big, spooky
looking castle.
I'll show you a picture of
it, as a matter of fact.
This is a photograph
of me standing
in front of Hunyad
Castle, there.
>> NOORY: God, when
was that built?
>> WARREN: Oh, gosh.
I'm thinking the
1600's maybe 1500's.
>> NOORY: It's gorgeous.
>> WARREN: 1500's I'm thinking.
And so it is just
a very impressive,
striking, intimidating place.
Now knowing we were going
to have most of the night
to investigate this
place all to ourselves--
>> NOORY: You spent
the night in there?
>> WARREN: Yes.
I was with a group of--
>> NOORY: Are you crazy?
>> WARREN: Well,
yeah, a little bit.
It's required.
And so I talked to
a colleague of mine
who works with some
of the technology
that we're going to
be talking about soon.
A type of device, it's
called a spectralizer,
it's a radionics box that
you hook to your mind.
And you set a
target, a location.
So in this case, it would
be this particular castle.
And you set some dials-- I'll
explain later how it works--
and you send your energy
and your intention
to that place to enhance
paranormal activity.
So a month before you went
to this castle, my friend,
Dr. Molder we call him--
>> NOORY: Mm, hm.
Fitting.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
He built this device and
focused it on this castle.
And that night, we
had nonstop activity.
Not only did we have several
people who saw apparitions,
but the most prevalent thing was
that, even though the property
was locked down and
very controlled,
all night long something
was throwing rocks
at us, rocks and pebbles-- hard.
I mean zinging them
out of the shadows.
And I mean, here we
are in an empty room.
You're looking out
round with night vision.
Where are these coming from?
>> NOORY: You could
hear them or see them?
>> WARREN: There's a picture of
one, right there, that landed.
>> NOORY: A rock,
a little pebble.
>> WARREN: Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean just being
horizontally zinged.
>> NOORY: How do you know
the people at the castle,
who are putting on these events,
aren't doing that to trick you?
>> WARREN: Well, in
this particular case,
like some of the
ones that I saw,
these were occurring
in a sealed room.
And I was in there
with two other people.
>> NOORY: So there's no way?
>> WARREN: No.
And plus, we've
got devices, we've
got gadgets that will
allow us to pick up energy.
>> NOORY: Well, I want to
see some of these gadgets
in a moment, Josh, but let's
take some more questions from
the audience.
Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Josh,
you talked about that
there's, in your opinion, two
different types of ghosts.
But how do you
explain an orb verses
an apparition, verses
an energy field?
Is it how the ghost
chooses to show itself?
Or is it something different?
>> WARREN: That's
a great question.
And in one of my books
called "How to Hunt Ghosts,"
I actually talked about five
different types of ghosts.
Entities and imprints would
be the most common general
divisions.
But when it comes to the
way in which they manifest,
how they appear, I think
that there are really
two issues involved.
In the photograph that showed
Joe's energy field being
knocked out of his
body, the energy field
looked just like
the physical field,
because the two were overlaid.
But I think, as time goes on,
if the energy field is removed
from the body, it
begins to break down.
It's kind of like
sand that's dumped out
of a plastic mold
for a sand castle.
You have that nice crisp
sand castle of sand,
and then it begins to
get crumbly and rough
around the edges.
And I think that the
longer your energy field
is outside of this
physical form,
then the more it kind of
breaks down into a misty form.
And once it's loosened
into a misty form,
it would make sense
that, eventually, it
would become more
and more condensed
into a perfect balanced sphere.
Because if you, right
now, had the ability
to snap your fingers and morph
into any form you wanted,
what would be more perfect
than a ball of light that
could zip around at any speed?
You wouldn't have to worry
about gravitational forces
that we deal with here,
with our awkward bodies.
And so, I think, to
a certain extent,
you might be able
to determine the age
of a spiritual manifestation,
that is to say,
how long it's been
outside of a physical body
by whether it appears as a
distinct form, a misty form,
an orb, et cetera.
And of course,
the other variable
would be, how does the
ghost want to be seen,
and how do you choose
to perceive it?
As in the example of, maybe
seeing a clothed ghost
if you don't want to see a naked
person, for whatever reason.
And who wouldn't, but hey.
>> NOORY: How about another
question for Joshua?
Yes, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: Josh, you mentioned
during an investigation
it's possible for a dark entity
or a parasite to attach itself
to you.
Do you believe you
can take that away
from the location to
possibly your own residence
and so forth, and this
thing could stay attached?
And if so, what could you
do before the investigation
to kind of protect yourself from
getting these things attached
to you?
>> NOORY: Two good
questions, Josh.
Do they follow you?
And how can you stop it?
>> WARREN: Yes.
You know, I used to think
that these things could not
follow you.
And then I found out otherwise.
I came back after
an investigation
one night from a very
haunted, negative place.
And 5 o'clock in the morning
I was sitting in my office,
and all of a sudden, boom!
My door flies open.
A cold blast of air comes
in, papers fly everywhere,
and my stereo, which was turned
off, turns on full blast.
Scared the heck out of me.
And I realized,
there's something
that's just come into this room.
Now that's a dramatic
example, but the point
is, whether you get something
stuck on you in your,
what I call your wormhole
brain, that little connection
to consciousness, or you have
something big and dramatic
that storms in, I do think
that you can be followed.
But you have to also realize
that if these things are
dependent on our energy field
in order to have the strength
to interact with this
particular realm, then
you have a bit of control
over how much strength
you give to them.
And I think one of the
simplest things that you can do
is just have a good basic diet,
the same type of diet that
will prevent you from getting
a cold, maybe, you know.
>> NOORY: Why would that work?
>> WARREN: Well, because
your entire system has better
energy.
Your weakness is not allowing
these things to work on you.
>> NOORY: Is that what
is a major factor?
>> WARREN: I think having
a great diet and your state
of mind.
Because if you are
a depressed person,
it is going to weaken
your tolerance for ideas.
If you're a strong person,
I mean, you have to realize,
if we're dealing with an
energy field that's spiritual,
and we are spiritual
beings up here,
we have to combat it
on a spiritual level.
A lot of people of
envision themselves
circled with a shield of
white light, or say a prayer.
>> NOORY: They say
throw sage around you?
>> WARREN: Yeah, well, all
these things are very intriguing
because, you know, for thousands
of years human beings have
relied on the concept that
faith of some kind is important
to combat the negative forces.
And things that
symbolized this would
be a crucifix, or a
Bible, or whatever.
It's not to say that
these things actually
change the physical environment.
It's that these are
kind of trigger objects,
you might say, to
help you sort of focus
your mental intent
on whatever it
is that brings you
that sense of strength.
>> NOORY: You brought
us some equipment.
I want you to pull it out.
And I want you to
test it on me and you
when we come right back
on "Beyond Belief."
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>> NOORY: And welcome back to
"Beyond Belief" with Joshua P.
Warren.
OK, Josh, you brought me a World
War II helmet, or something.
What is this?
>> WARREN: Well, you know, over
the years we have talked about
a lot of weird technology.
And I decided to bring you
maybe the weirdest thing I have.
>> NOORY: You may have topped
yourself on this stuff.
>> WARREN: This little
box, right here,
is the most
simple/complicated thing.
It's called a radionics
box-type device.
But it is actually
what we specifically
call a spectralizer.
Because this is designed
to try to intensify
paranormal activity
using mind power alone.
>> NOORY: Mind power alone.
So the electricity from the
mind, basically, fuels that.
>> WARREN: Thay same energy that
we were showing that escaped
the body when we made the
Kirlian photo is presumably
what would power this.
There are no batteries.
It doesn't plug into a wall.
The idea is that this thing can
actually tune your intention.
Now we don't know
exactly how this works.
But I wouldn't have it
here if it didn't work.
>> NOORY: You want me to
put something on my head
that's electrical, and you
don't know exactly how it works?
>> WARREN: If I had it plugged
in, that would be a little
scary, but this is
actually a device that,
it enhances ghostly activity.
Just like it did at that
castle in Transylvania.
And even though we're
not certain, precisely,
how it works, because
it does work so well,
we're really intrigued with it.
We think that this
helps us, as a conduit,
between that
mind/body relationship
and the environment
that essentially,
if we are living in this
sort of holographic medium
here, that there are
devices out there which
can tune the way that your
energy is being focused.
>> NOORY: Who invented this?
>> WARREN: This was developed in
the early 1900s by a physician
named Albert Abrams.
>> NOORY: Yeah, and
so you duplicated it?
>> WARREN: Well, Dr. Molder
makes a lot of different
devices that are
radionically oriented.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> WARREN: But the spectralizer
is the one that is specifically
designed for enhancing
the paranormal.
>> NOORY: Does it make a noise?
>> WARREN: No.
It's a completely passive
device by all those standards.
And what you do,
basically, is use this
as a feedback and tuning
mechanism for your intention.
So it's kind of
like, I could tell
you to drive from
here to New Mexico,
and you could probably drive
around and find your way there
eventually.
But if I give you a map, you're
going to get there much more
quickly, all right?
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> WARREN: And so this is almost
like a more efficient form
of trying to determine how
your intention is projected
in a paranormal scenario.
So here is essentially
how this thing would work.
>> NOORY: Should I put it on?
>> WARREN: Oh, not yet.
We don't want that
to happen, yet.
>> NOORY: Don't want
to do that, yet.
>> WARREN: No.
This is called a stick pad.
>> NOORY: All right.
>> WARREN: And you see how it's
made of a plastic material?
And if you stroke
it, you'll find
that it feels a little
bit sticky, right?
There's just a little bit
of surface adhesion there.
>> NOORY: Yeah, it's got
little resistance to it.
>> WARREN: And this
is an input plate.
So because we're dealing
with a subjective science, so
to speak, what we
would do is figure out
what place that we want to
focus our intention on first.
So let's say we want to focus
on Hunyad Castle, right?
So the simplest
thing we could do
is put a picture
of Hunyad Castle
right here, or maybe some
objects from Hunyad Castle.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> WARREN: And it's almost
like a voodoo specimen, right?
This is going to represent
what we're focusing on.
So the first thing we want
to do is tune the device so
that you're directing your
intention onto that spot.
So next you would
put the helmet on.
Here we go folks,
drum roll, please.
>> NOORY: How I do I look?
>> AUDIENCE: Great.
>> WARREN: A Martian
miner, perhaps, right?
OK.
Actually, you know, George,
it looks good on you.
>> NOORY: We should do
this to Richard Hogland,
that's what we should do.
>> WARREN: Yeah,
he would like that.
So now, you've got
three knobs here
on the front of
your helmet, right?
>> NOORY: I guess so.
So what you would
do is take one hand,
we'll say your right hand,
and stroke this stick plate.
And as you do that, you twist
one of the knobs on your helmet
with the other hand.
>> NOORY: Oh, with
the other hand.
>> WARREN: And as you slowly
turn it from zero to 10 and you
stroke--
>> NOORY: Am I
going the right way?
>> WARREN: Yep, you're
going the right way.
There will come a point when
it will suddenly fill stickier.
It's almost like it changes.
>> NOORY: Yeah, like right now.
>> WARREN: Boom!
>> NOORY: It's like glue.
>> WARREN: Then leave that
knob right where it is.
And you do this the same
thing with the second knob.
And whenever you
get a stick, you'll
know that the knob is
in the correct position?
>> NOORY: That one
happened sooner.
>> WARREN: Yep.
>> NOORY: Why?
>> WARREN: Well, you -- you're
finding a frequency, or a rate,
as they call it.
So a three digit number is what
we're going to come up with.
So once you have it--
>> NOORY: OK.
>> WARREN: OK, so now, it looks
like your rate is about 6, 4,
and 5.
OK.
645.
>> NOORY: What does that mean?
>> WARREN: So that means,
this location, this castle,
is represented by a
particular rate, 645.
>> NOORY: Now I know how Johnny
Carson felt when he was doing
stuff like this.
>> WARREN: And so now, you want
to write that particular rate
down, because you can use that
as a reference for what you
want to do to that location.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> WARREN: So the second
thing you would do is say OK,
what do I want to have
happen at that location?
Do I want rocks to be thrown?
Do I want to see a ghost?
>> NOORY: I project that?
>> WARREN: Yes, you
would think that.
And as you do that, you
also would write something,
or place something here
that would indicate that.
You could get a little model
of Casper the Friendly Ghost,
if you wanted to,
and stick it there.
I'll tell you, to
be serious, you
could take one of these
pebbles that I have,
that was thrown at
the castle, and you
could put that on there.
Something that would
represent the activity.
>> NOORY: Do you have to put
whatever you're thinking about
on this?
>> WARREN: Yes, yeah.
You need to put it
on the input plate.
And once you do that--
>> NOORY: So if I was
thinking of Pam Anderson,
we'd put a little Pam
Anderson picture there?
>> WARREN: That's exactly right.
And we could manifest Pam
Anderson, if we're very lucky.
>> NOORY: Well, but what
if something went wrong?
What would she look like then?
Phyllis Diller.
>> WARREN: Yeah, it
would be hard to tell.
If you stroke the plate
and you go through
and you adjust each
one of these knobs,
then you come up with
a particular rate
for Hunyad Castle
being haunted, right?
So you'd end up with a rate
that would be 13 digits long.
You would have one, two,
three on your head there,
and you would have 10 here.
Are you doing this
at the castle?
>> WARREN: No, you would do
this anywhere else you want.
You can do at your house before
you even go to Transylvania.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> WARREN: And so, once you have
a rate which is, in this case,
a 13 digit number that
represents your intention being
focused on the haunting
activity there,
you can leave the
machine just like it is,
and it will enhance
the activity.
Or-- and this is the
amazing thing-- now
that you have a rate, if you
don't want paranormal activity
to happen, you simply turn
each one of these knobs
to the inverse position.
So for example, each
one of these knobs
goes from zero to 10.
Well if one knob has a six
which represents the place being
haunted, you'd say 10 minus
6, and you would turn it to 4.
And if one knob has a three,
you'd say what's 10 minus 3,
and you would turn to 7.
And then, you could
actually adjust these knobs
to the rate for the
place not being haunted,
and you would be
projecting that intention.
>> NOORY: You could turn a
place into a haunted place with
something like this?
>> WARREN: That's the idea.
>> NOORY: The
entities will show up,
because they feel like
you're sending them a signal?
>> WARREN: Either that, or
you are literally creating
a thought form.
That you are taking that energy
that exists within your body
and you are projecting it.
And this is just the head band.
>> NOORY: Is that like
a version of this?
>> WARREN: Yeah,
except this one,
because this one doesn't
have dials on it.
>> NOORY: Why don't
you wear that one?
>> WARREN: OK.
We'll both look
crazy, here we go.
What do you think, guys?
Are we studs?
Ladies, is it
getting hot in here?
Yeah?
>> NOORY: Josh, are you
thinking of a steak tonight?
>> WARREN: I am.
>> NOORY: Huh?
>> WARREN: How did you know?
>> NOORY: You
projected it to me.
>> WARREN: It's like
the Matrix in here.
So this--
>> NOORY: By the way, I would
change that other thought you
had.
>> WARREN: That's right.
Well, we are on TV, now, so
we can't illustrate that.
But this is a great
way to experiment
with projecting your intention.
And I swear, if
it didn't work, I
wouldn't be showing it to you.
>> NOORY: What if people
used this for evil purposes?
>> WARREN: It can be used
for any purpose you want.
In fact, you know I've talked on
your program about the Wishing
Machine, right?
>> NOORY: Yes, I remember that.
>> WARREN: This is a version
of the Wishing Machine.
So that means that, even
though this one was designed
specifically for
paranormal activity, which
is why we call this version
the spectralizer, because it's
a spectral materializer,
still, a very basic type
of box like this can be used to
magnify any intention that you
have, be it positive
or negative.
>> NOORY: Let me feel that.
>> WARREN: It's just plastic.
Now you can see, these are
truly handmade in a workshop.
And this is not the kind of
thing you'd run to Walmart
and buy.
And it's important
for the technician who
makes these things to
make each one in a very
unique customized way,
especially for the purpose
that you think you
will use it for.
>> NOORY: It's ingenious.
>> WARREN: Well, the very fact
that it works in the paranormal
field, it tells us something
about that mind/body
environment relationship.
If I took this same
device, and I gave it
to a person who
lived 500 years ago,
it might not work
for that person,
because that person--
this would be so foreign.
But we grew up in a day and
age when we liked things
with knobs and
switches and wires.
We associate that with it
actually working and making
something happen.
So this may be just an advanced
type of device that actually
takes the potential that
we have to manifest things,
and gives us the facility
to literally manifest it
and tune it for a
particular purpose.
>> NOORY: That's fantastic.
How do people get a hold of you?
How do they monitor you?
What's your website, Josh?
>> WARREN: My website
is joshuapwarren.com.
I always tell everybody,
there's no period
after the P. So go
to joshuapwarren.com,
you can see some great pictures,
video footage, and some
of the wild experiments
that we continue
to do to break new ground.
>> NOORY: Thank you, Josh.
>> WARREN: Thank you, George.
>> NOORY: That's Joshua
P. Warren, everybody.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: So I think I'll go
out tonight and put that hat
on and create intention
wherever I go.
But just remember,
the next time that you
hear some kind of a spirit enter
your little house at night,
maybe it really is,
and it's not just
a part of your imagination.
Thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC]